blog: using postgresql with node-red (#1648)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/02/postgresql-with-node-red.md

---
title: Using PostgreSQL with Node-RED
subtitle: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data
description: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data
date: 
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: /blog/2024/02/images/postgresql_with_node-red_Inventory_management_system.png
tags:
    - posts
    - node-red

>     - dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - dashboard
    - postgresql
```

---
title: Using Postgresql with Node-RED
subtitle: Guide to integrating Postgresql database into Node-red Applications.
description: Guide to integrating Postgresql database into Node-red Applications.
date: 
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]

> image: /blog/2024/02/images/postgresql_with_node-red_Inventory_management_system.png

Reviewer 2: The image doesn't have the right proportions; it should be a 1600 × 900 px image. As for the content, is it meaningful to people reading this article? We're usually more 'metaphorical' when creating these images.

tags:
    - posts
    - node-red
    - dashboard
---

A few months back, we shared a blog on [integrating InfluxDB with Node-RED](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2023/07/connect-node-red-to-influxdb/) to handle time-series data effectively. However, applications typically involve more than just time-series data, they often include various data types that can be efficiently managed with SQL-based databases. In this guide, we will walk you through building a simple inventory management system with Node-RED and PostgreSQL to demonstrate how to integrate PostgreSQL with
Node-RED. 

<!--more-->

# What exactly is Postgresql?

> PostgreSQL is an open-source database with a strong reputation for its reliability, flexibility, and support of open technical standards. Unlike other Relational Database Management Systems PostgreSQL supports both non-relational and relational data types. This makes it one of the most compliant, stable, and mature relational databases available today.

Author: I apologize for the unclear introduction. Let me replace it with a clear and polished introduction.

# Installing Postgresql custom node

> The first thing we need to do to get things started is to install the Postgresql custom node and gain an understanding of Postgresql configuration details.

Author: ok Zj

1. Navigate to the instance's setting and then go to the environment section.
2. Click on the `add variable` button and add variables for each of the configuration data that we discussed in the above section.
3. Click on the save button and restart the instance by clicking on the top right `Action` button and selecting the restart option.

!["Adding environment variables"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_environment_variables.png "Adding environment variables")

# Creating Table

In this section, we will create a table in our database to store product data. Additionally, it's important to note that throughout this guide we will send an object containing the properties of configuration details with each request to the database. This approach allows us to use environment variables to secure our sensitive configuration details while connecting to the database.

!["Setting pgConfig objects property"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_change_node.png "Setting pgConfig objects property")

1. Drag an Inject node onto canvas, and keep it unchanged.
2. Drag the change node onto canvas, and set `msg.pgConfig` properties using the added environment variable as shown in the above image.

> 3. Drag a Postgresql node onto Canvas, click on that node, and paste the following SQL command into the query input field (I have added comments for your understanding of sql commands)

Reviewer: @sumitshinde-84 Why aren't you using the PG config node to setup these details?

Author: That package has only one node, which we are currently using. Additionally, configuration via the nodes tab doesn't support environment variables.

Reviewer 3: > configuration via the nodes tab doesn't support environment variables.

Do you not have the $ selection drop down in your PG config?

![image](https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/assets/44235289/3bb3d2ba-08ae-493f-9ad0-1630becdff36)

![image](https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/assets/44235289/a2b55edb-ab0c-40ad-88cc-cca586460dab)

![image](https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/assets/44235289/741b9435-2b7f-4040-a8ab-08501d56cddb)

Author: @Steve-Mcl, configuring the pg config node only supports Flow level environment variables or environment variables set within the settings -> environment, but it doesn't support global environment variables.

Reviewer 3: That is quite odd if true. The expectation of `env` setting on a `typedInput` control should not be limited to any scope at all.

There is always the fall back option of using `${PG_HOST}` etc. That cannot be _incorrectly_ interpreted by a node author since it is done at start up time of Node-RED (the `${PG_HOST}` value gets replaced before the contrib node knows about it)

So, in short, if the `env` setting does not work, using `${xxx}` will work as is described in the Node-RED docs: https://nodered.org/docs/user-guide/environment-variables

![image](https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/assets/44235289/fa2e6cab-5f2f-4cea-8bcf-2f476e5be6ad)

Author: @Steve-Mcl  could you please take look at issue which I have created at authors repo - https://github.com/alexandrainst/node-red-contrib-postgresql/issues/64

Author: > As to why the config node is a better option, as you can see in the source code, a `new client` is created every time you supply the `pgConfig` in the `msg`. With a config, the pool is used to save generating new connections to the DB
> 
> REF: https://github.com/alexandrainst/node-red-contrib-postgresql/blob/main/postgresql.js#L222-L227
> 
> 
> > but it doesn't support global environment variables.
> 
> I am struggling to see how that is the case. Looking at the code, if you set `env` type, the code gets it from `process.env` (which is where env vars are presented to the process) https://github.com/alexandrainst/node-red-contrib-postgresql/blob/93a4f0dacb1f6b2214778356cece7516ec68b58b/postgresql.js#L48
> 
> Perhaps I missing some finer detail? Are you actually referring to Node-RED configured Global Env Vars (not the Env Vars FlowFuse provides to the instance)?

Okay @Steve-Mcl, I will update the configuration section in the post to use the pgconfig node.

Author: Thanks @Steve-Mcl for providing a nice demo and information. Furthermore, regarding the post, I will update it to configure PostgreSQL via the pgConfig tab/node directly. Creating an instance of the client every time is indeed not the best practice

Reviewer 3: Excellent!

Happy to help @sumitshinde-84 

Like you, I'd rather best practice is encouraged.

```sql
-- This is an SQL INSERT statement used to add data into the product_data table.
INSERT INTO product_data (id, name, price, stock)
-- This line specifies the columns into which data will be inserted. The columns are id, name, price, and stock.
-- It's important to match the columns in the same order as the values in the next line.
VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4);

> ```

Reviewer: I expected an `CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS` statement here?

Author: I have separated operations for better understanding of readers. Therefore, I think the 'CREATE TABLE' statement should be updated with this approach, wdyt?

1. Drag an Inject node onto the canvas.
2. Drag a change node onto canvas and set `msg.pgConfig` object’s property as we discussed above.
3. Drag a Postgresql node onto canvas and paste the following SQL command into the query input field.

```sql 
-- SQL command to drop the product_data table
DROP TABLE product_data;
```

!["Droping product_data from the database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_drop_tables.png "Droping product_data from the database")

# Deploying Flow
!["Deploying Inventory management system's flow"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_ff_editor.png "Deploying Inventory management system's flow")

Our Inventory Management System is now complete and ready for deployment. To initiate the deployment process, locate the red deploy button positioned in the top right corner. Begin by creating a table using the insert node button. For product data insertion, updates, and deletions, navigate to https://<your-instance-name>.flowfuse.cloud/dashboard.

!["Inventory management system"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_Inventory_management_system.png "Inventory management system")

# Conclusion 

> In summary, this guide has demonstrated the integration of PostgreSQL with Node-RED.throughout this blog We have built an inventory management system, guiding you on creating, dropping tables, and performing operations like inserting, updating, and deleting data. Also, we have highlighted best practices such as utilizing environment variables and selecting certified nodes to ensure security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tthis guide has demonstrated the integration of PostgreSQL with Node-RED. Throughout this article we've built an inventory management system with data stored in a database. You've learned to create and drop tables, and performing operations like inserting, updating, and deleting data. Also, we have highlighted best practices such as utilizing environment variables and selecting certified nodes to ensure security.
```

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---
title: Using PostgreSQL with Node-RED
subtitle: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data
description: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data

> date: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
date: 2024-02-23
```

# Adding environment variables 

We have discussed many times in previous blogs that using environment variables is a best practice that prevents revealing confidential configuration details such as API keys, passwords, secret keys, etc directly in the flow. Therefore, In this section, we will add environment variables for PostgreSQL configuration details, for more details see  [Using Environment Variables in Node-RED](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2023/02/environment-variables-in-node-red/).

1. Navigate to the instance's setting and then go to the environment section.
2. Click on the `add variable` button and add variables for each of the configuration data that we discussed in the above section.
3. Click on the save button and restart the instance by clicking on the top right `Action` button and selecting the restart option.

!["Adding environment variables"](./images/postgresql_with_nodred_environment_variable.png "Adding environment variables")

# Creating Table

In this section, we will create a table in our database to store product data.

1. Drag an Inject node onto canvas, and keep it unchanged.

> 2. Click on the PostgreSQL node that we have added previously, and paste the following SQL command into the query input field. (I have added comments for your understanding of SQL commands)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Click on the PostgreSQL node we added previously and paste the following SQL command into the query input field. (I have added comments for your understanding of SQL commands)
```

3. Drag the function node onto Canvas and paste the following script.

```javascript
// Destructure the properties from msg.payload (obtained data by using form)
const {name, price, stock } = msg.payload;
// Create an array containing name, price, and stock
// The order of the array items in msg.params will correspond to the placeholders in the SQL query
// For example, $1 will be replaced by the value of name, $2 will be replaced by the value of price, and so on
msg.params = [name, price, stock];
return msg;
```

4. Drag a PostgreSQL node onto the Canvas and click on that node and paste the following SQL command into the query input field

```sql
-- This is an SQL INSERT statement used to add data into the product_data table.
INSERT INTO product_data ( name, price, stock)
-- This line specifies the columns into which data will be inserted. The columns are name, price, and stock.
-- It's important to match the columns in the same order as the values in the next line.
VALUES ($1, $2, $3);
```
!["Inserting data into database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_insert_data.png "Inserting data into database")

> 5. Connect Ui-form’s output to function node’s input, and function node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Connect Ui-form’s output to the function node’s input and the function node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input.
```

# Displaying product data on Dashboard 2.0
In this section, we will retrieve all data from our database table and display it on Dashboard 2.0 using the Ui-table widget.

> 1. Drag an Inject node onto canvas.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Drag an Inject node onto the canvas.
```

2. Drag a PostgreSQL node onto the Canvas and click on that node and paste the following SQL command into the query input field. 

> 3. Drag a Ui-table widget onto canvas and create a new Ui group for it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Drag a Ui-table widget onto the canvas and create a new Ui group for it.
```

> 4. Connect inject node's output to PostgreSQL node’s input, and PostgreSQL node's output to the Ui-table's input.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Connect the inject node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input and the PostgreSQL node's output to the Ui-table's input.
```

1. Drag a Ui-Form widget onto the canvas and create a new UI group for it.
2. Add elements for product id and stock in the form widget and give it a name, label, and select type.
3. Drag a function node onto Canvas and paste the following script.

```javascript 
// Destructure the properties from msg.payload
const { id, stock } = msg.payload;
// Create an array containing id and stock
// The order of the array items in msg.params will correspond to the placeholders in the SQL query
// For example, $1 will be replaced by the value of id, $2 will be replaced by the value of stock
msg.params = [id, stock];
return msg;
```
4. Drag a PostgreSQL node on canvas, click on that node and paste the following SQL command into the query input field.

```sql 
-- UPDATE statement to modify data in the product_data table

UPDATE product_data 
-- Specifies the table to be updated (product_data)

SET 
    stock =  $2
-- Sets the value of the "stock" column to the value represented by the parameter $2.

> -- The value to be set is typically provided externally, In our context we getting this parameter by "msg.params"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-- The value to be set is typically provided externally, In our context, we get this parameter by "msg.params"
```

WHERE id = $1;
-- Specifies the condition that must be met for the update to occur.
-- In this case, it updates rows where the "id" column matches the value represented by the parameter $1.
```

!["Updating product data to the database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_update_data.png "Updating product data to the database")

> 5. Connect Ui-form’s output to function node’s input, and function node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Connect Ui-form’s output to the function node’s input and the function node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input.
```

# Deleting product data from the database

!["Deleting product data to the database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_form3.png "Deleting product data to the database")

> In this section, we'll cover how to delete product data from the database. we will use Dashboard 2.0's form interface to collects essential information like the product id and name. While the product id alone is sufficient to delete a product from the database, we include the product name as an additional precaution to prevent accidental deletion of product data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll cover how to delete product data from the database. We will use Dashboard 2.0's form interface to collect essential information like the product id and name. While the product id alone is sufficient to delete a product from the database, we include the product name as an additional precaution to prevent accidental deletion of product data.
```

1. Drag a Ui-Form widget onto the canvas and create a new UI group for it.
2. Add elements for product id and name in the form widget and give it a name, label, and select type.
3. Drag a function node onto Canvas and paste the following script.

```javascript 
// Destructure the properties from msg.payload
const { id, name } = msg.payload;
// Create an array containing id and name
// The order of the array items in msg.params will correspond to the placeholders in the SQL query
// For example, $1 will be replaced by the value of id, $2 will be replaced by the value of name
msg.params = [id, name ];
return msg;
```
4. Drag a PostgreSQL node on canvas, click on that node and paste the following SQL command into the query input field.

```sql 
-- Deletes rows from the "product_data" table where both "id" and "name" match the given parameters
DELETE FROM product_data 
-- Specifies the conditions for deletion
WHERE id = $1 AND name = $2;
```
!["Deleting product data to the database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_delete_data.png "Deleting product data to the database")

> 5. Connect Ui-form’s output to function node’s input, and function node's output to PostgreSQL node’s input.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Connect Ui-form’s output to the function node’s input and the function node's output to the PostgreSQL node’s input.
```

# Dropping Table

> In this section, we will understand how to drop ( delete ) tables from the database.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section will explain how to drop ( delete ) tables from the database.
```

1. Drag an Inject node onto the canvas.
2. Drag a PostgreSQL node onto canvas and paste the following SQL command into the query input field.

```sql 
-- Drop the table 'product_data' if it exists to avoid conflicts.
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS product_data;

-- Note: 'IF EXISTS' is used to check if the table exists in the database before attempting to drop it.
```

!["Droping product_data from the database"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_drop_tables.png "Droping product_data from the database")

# Deploying Flow
!["Deploying Inventory management system's flow"](./images/postgresql_with_nodred_environment_variable_ff_editor.png "Deploying Inventory management system's flow")

> Our Inventory Management System is now complete and ready for deployment. To initiate the deployment process, locate the red 'Deploy' button positioned in the top right corner. To create, drop tables, and retrieve table data, you need to click on the 'Inject Node's button. For product data insertion, updates, and deletions, navigate to `https://<your-instance-name>.flowfuse.cloud/dashboard`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Our Inventory Management System is now complete and ready for deployment. To initiate the deployment process, locate the red 'Deploy' button positioned in the top right corner. To create, drop tables, and retrieve table data, click on the 'Inject Node' button. For product data insertion, updates, and deletions, navigate to `https://<your-instance-name>.flowfuse.cloud/dashboard`.
```

!["Inventory management system"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_Inventory_management_system.png "Inventory management system")

## Best practices to follow
Throughout this guide, we have followed some best practices that we think need to be discussed separately. In this section, we'll discuss some best practices that need to be followed while using the PostgreSQL database.

> 1. Connection Pooling: Implementing connection pooling can significantly enhance the performance of PostgreSQL. It allows multiple clients to reuse a set of database connections, which reduces the overhead of establishing new connections for each query. By configuring PostgreSQL to use connection pooling, you can optimize resource usage and improve overall system performance. Rest assured that in this guide, we have already configured our PostgreSQL to use connection pooling via the Postgres Config node/tab.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Connection Pooling: Implementing connection pooling can significantly enhance the performance of PostgreSQL. It allows multiple clients to reuse database connections, reducing the overhead of establishing new connections for each query. By configuring PostgreSQL to use connection pooling, you can optimize resource usage and improve overall system performance. In this guide, we have configured our PostgreSQL to use connection pooling via the Postgres Config node/tab.
```

2. Environment Variables: The [Twelve Factors](https://12factor.net/) emphasize the importance of separating configuration details from the code (flow) to ensure better security. Storing database credentials within the codebase can pose a security risk. Instead, expose the configuration details, as environment variables. This ensures that sensitive information remains secure and can be managed separately from the codebase.

3. Credential Rotation: Regularly rotating database credentials is essential for maintaining robust security practices. This includes changing login information for managed databases and other database access points. Implementing a scheduled credential rotation process, such as quarterly 'rotation days,' streamlines the task and reduces the risk of unauthorized access. 

# Conclusion 

> This guide has demonstrated the integration of PostgreSQL with Node-RED. Throughout this article we've built an inventory management system with data stored in a database. You've learned to create and drop tables, and performing operations like inserting, updating, and deleting data. Also, we have highlighted best practices such as utilizing environment variables and selecting certified nodes to ensure security.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide has demonstrated the integration of PostgreSQL with Node-RED. Throughout this article, we've built an inventory management system with data stored in a database. You've learned to create and drop tables and perform operations like inserting, updating, and deleting data. Also, we have highlighted best practices, such as utilizing environment variables and selecting certified nodes to ensure security.
```

---
title: Using PostgreSQL with Node-RED
subtitle: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data
description: Guide to integrating PostgreSQL database into Node-RED Applications for Storing, Updating, and Querying Data
date: 
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: /blog/2024/02/images/postgresql_with_node-red_Inventory_management_system.png
tags:
    - posts
    - node-red
    - dashboard
    - postgresql
---

> A few months back, we shared a blog on [integrating InfluxDB with Node-RED](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2023/07/connect-node-red-to-influxdb/) to handle time-series data effectively. However, applications typically involve more than just time-series data, they often include various data types that can be efficiently managed with SQL-based databases. In this guide, we will walk you through building a simple inventory management system with Node-RED and PostgreSQL to demonstrate how to integrate PostgreSQL with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few months back, we shared a blog on [integrating InfluxDB with Node-RED](/blog/2023/07/connect-node-red-to-influxdb/) to handle time-series data effectively. However, applications typically involve more than just time-series data, they often include various data types that can be efficiently managed with SQL-based databases. In this guide, we will walk you through building a simple inventory management system with Node-RED and PostgreSQL to demonstrate how to integrate PostgreSQL with
```

1. Install `node-red-contrib-postgresql` by the pallet manager. You can choose other nodes too, but we chose this node because it is part of the [certified node catalogue by FlowFuse](https://flowfuse.com/certified-nodes/) which assures that the node is robust, secure, and developed with high-quality.
2. Before connecting to your PostgreSQL database, ensure you have the following information ready and environment variables set up as discussed below in `Adding environment variable` section:

- Host: IP address or hostname of your PostgreSQL server.
- Port: By default, PostgreSQL uses port 5432. Ensure this matches your PostgreSQL server configuration.
- Database: The name of the PostgreSQL database you want to connect to.
- User: username with the necessary privileges to access the specified database.
- Password: corresponding password for the username.

3. Drag the PostgreSQL node onto the canvas, click on that node and click on the edit icon next to the server input field to configure it.

!["Configuring PostgreSQL"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_pgconfig1.png "Configuring PostgreSQL")

> !["Configuring PostgreSQL"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_pgconfig2.png "Configuring PostgreSQL")

Reviewer: Can we use alt tags to tell users what the difference is?

> !["Configuring PostgreSQL"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_pgconfig2.png "Configuring PostgreSQL")

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
!["Configuring PostgreSQL Security"](./images/postgresql_with_node-red_pgconfig2.png "Configuring PostgreSQL Security")
```

1. Navigate to the instance's setting and then go to the environment section.
2. Click on the `add variable` button and add variables for each of the configuration data that we discussed in the above section.
3. Click on the save button and restart the instance by clicking on the top right `Action` button and selecting the restart option.

!["Adding environment variables"](./images/postgresql_with_nodred_environment_variable.png "Adding environment variables")

# Creating Table

In this section, we will create a table in our database to store product data.

1. Drag an Inject node onto canvas, and keep it unchanged.
2. Click on the PostgreSQL node that we have added previously, and paste the following SQL command into the query input field. (I have added comments for your understanding of SQL commands)

```sql
-- Create a table named product_data if it does not already exist
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS product_data (
  -- Define a column named id as a bigint type, which serves as the primary key

>   id bigint PRIMARY KEY,

Reviewer: You don't need a bigint, no need to waste the bytes. You're not going to have 2 billion unique rows in this table so let's not overcomplicate things. 

Further, you're looking to auto increment this later, so you're actually looking for the SERIAL data type:

```suggestion
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
```

1. Drag a Ui-Form widget onto the canvas and select the created group.
2. Add an element for all required input data in the form widget and give it a name, label, and select type, I have selected 'number' as a type for 'product id', 'price', and 'stock', and 'text' for 'name', but feel free to adjust according to your preference and data requirements.
3. Drag the function node onto Canvas and paste the following script.

```javascript
// Destructure the properties from msg.payload (obtained data by using form)
const { id, name, price, stock } = msg.payload;
// Create an array containing id, name, price, and stock
// The order of the array items in msg.params will correspond to the placeholders in the SQL query
// For example, $1 will be replaced by the value of id, $2 will be replaced by the value of name, and so on
msg.params = [id, name, price, stock];
return msg;
```

4. Drag a PostgreSQL node onto the Canvas and click on that node and paste the following SQL command into the query input field

```sql
-- This is an SQL INSERT statement used to add data into the product_data table.

> INSERT INTO product_data (id, name, price, stock)

Reviewer: If you have a self-incrementing (SERIAL) ID field, you don't need to insert this.

Author: Okay ZJ, I will update the image, script, and SQL command accordingly.

## Best practices to follow
Throughout this guide, we have followed some best practices that we think need to be discussed separately. In this section, we'll discuss some best practices that need to be followed while using the PostgreSQL database.

1. Connection Pooling: Implementing connection pooling can significantly enhance the performance of PostgreSQL. It allows multiple clients to reuse a set of database connections, which reduces the overhead of establishing new connections for each query. By configuring PostgreSQL to use connection pooling, you can optimize resource usage and improve overall system performance. Rest assured that in this guide, we have already configured our PostgreSQL to use connection pooling via the Postgres Config node/tab.

2. Environment Variables: The [Twelve Factors](https://12factor.net/) emphasize the importance of separating configuration from code(flow) to ensure better security. Storing database credentials within the codebase can pose a security risk. Instead, expose the configuration details, as environment variables. This ensures that sensitive information remains secure and can be managed separately from the codebase.

> 3. Primary Key Types: Choosing the appropriate data type for primary keys is crucial for database scalability and performance. While INT may suffice for small-scale applications, it's recommended to use BIGINT or UUID as primary keys for larger datasets. BIGINT offers a larger storage capacity and is more suitable for long-term scalability without the need for frequent migrations.

Reviewer: This makes little sense, an INT is 4 bytes, or 2^16! Just use a `int` with auto increment. Even a UUID is basically bull 💩 , over-engineered by engineers that think they build something that's Google scale next month. "Frequent migration"? It would be a one off?

Author: Could you please tell me, ZJ, if it is necessary to add more points or if three points are sufficient for this  best practices section?

Reviewer 4: Instead of recommending, it's better to point out limitations and assist the user in making a sound judgement.  Int is +/- 2.4 billion.

Author: Agreed. but I think we should keep the implementation as it is now with using int. However, we should also include a brief note highlighting the limitations of integers to assist readers in making informed decisions.
